test: expand the pixel tests section (#19178)
cockpit-project/cockpit: test/README.md

## Pixel tests

Pixel tests in Cockpit ensure that updates of our dependencies or code changes

> don't break unexpectedly break the UI, for example slight changes of layout,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
don't break the UI: for example slight changes of layout,
```

> padding, color and everything which isn't easily tested by a human. They also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
padding, color and everything which isn't easily spotted by a human. They also
```

give us confidence that an update of our UI Framework doesn't introduce changes
in how Cockpit looks.

> Pixel tests are in essence quite simple, they make a screenshot of the current
> state and compare this to a known good state, if there is a difference the test
> fails and a pixel difference is shown. This works as our tests run in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pixel tests make a screenshot of a selector and compare it to a known good 
reference image. if there is a difference, the test fails and a pixel difference
is shown.

This works as our tests run in the
```

[cockpit/tasks container](https://quay.io/repository/cockpit/tasks) which pins
the browser and font rendering so repeated runs provide the same pixels. To

> generate new pixels this tasks container should be used as your own browser and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generate new pixels, this tasks container must be used; your own browser and
```

font rendering software might generate different results. For more information
read the ["introduction blog post"](https://cockpit-project.org/blog/pixel-testing.html).

The test images are stored in git submodule in the `test/reference` directory and be fetched with:

```sh

> ./test/common/pixel-tests fetch

Reviewer 2: `fetch` does not retrieve things from the Git repo, do you mean `update`?

Author: Ah, `pull`!

Author: Oh, TIL, pull is deprecated for `update` good to know :)

```

As Cockpit tests under multiple distributions and it is not worth the effort to
run pixel tests on every supported distribution we only run them for the

> configured image configured in `test/reference-image`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image configured in `test/reference-image`.
```

> Our tests don't know when it is interesting to make a screenshot of the current
> state, so our tests have to specifically assert for saved pixels using
> `browser.assert_pixels`. This assertion method requires an CSS selector to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our tests call `Browser.assert_pixels` at interesting and strategic places. This assertion
method requires at least a CSS selector and an image title.
```

> provided and a title of the image. Pixel tests are generated in five layouts by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pixel tests are generated in five layouts by
```

Pixel tests are generated in five layouts by default: desktop, medium, mobile,
dark and rtl.

Take a screenshot of the content in `#detail-content`:
```python
browser.assert_pixels("#detail-content", "filesystem")
```

> Take a screenshot the content in `#detail-content` and ignore all elements with

Reviewer 2: `of the content`

> Take a screenshot the content in `#detail-content`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take a screenshot of the content in `#detail-content`:
```

a class `disk-stats` as they change per test run:
```python
browser.assert_pixels("#detail-content", "filesystem", ignore=[".disks-stats"])
```

> Take a screenshot the content in `#detail-content` and skip it for a specific

Reviewer 2: "of"

```python
browser.assert_pixels("#detail-content", "filesystem", skip_layouts=["rtl"])
```

> To update pixel tests it's recommended to either start use the tasks container
> to generate specific new pixels or create a draft PR and let the tests run for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update pixel tests, locally run the test in the current tasks container, 
or create a draft PR and let the tests run for
```

> `test/reference-image` and afterwards fetching the new pixels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`test/reference-image` and afterwards fetch the new pixels:
```

```

> ./test/common/pixel-tests fetch "https://cockpit-logs.us-east-1.linodeobjects.com/<snip>/log.html

Reviewer: Last time I checked it didn't work with /log.html -- that's the bit that you have to cut off. Maybe that was fixed since then?

Reviewer 2: Yes, that's fixed.

> ./test/common/pixel-tests fetch "https://cockpit-logs.us-east-1.linodeobjects.com/<snip>/log.html

Reviewer 2: Unclosed `"`

## Pixel tests

Pixel tests in Cockpit ensure that updates of our dependencies or code changes
don't break the UI: for example slight changes of layout, padding, color and
everything which isn't easily spotted by a human. They also give us confidence
that an update of our UI Framework doesn't introduce changes in how Cockpit
looks.

Pixel tests make a screenshot of a selector and compare it to a known good
reference image. if there is a difference, the test fails and a pixel
difference is shown.

This works as our tests run in the [cockpit/tasks container](https://quay.io/repository/cockpit/tasks)
which pins the browser and font rendering so repeated runs provide the same
pixels. To generate new pixels, this tasks container must be used; your own
browser and font rendering software might generate different results. For more
information read the ["introduction blog post"](https://cockpit-project.org/blog/pixel-testing.html).

> The test images are stored in git submodule in the `test/reference` directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The test images are stored in a git submodule in the `test/reference` directory
```

and be fetched with:

```sh
./test/common/pixel-tests update
```

As Cockpit tests under multiple distributions and it is not worth the effort to
run pixel tests on every supported distribution we only run them for the
image configured in `test/reference-image`.

Our tests call `Browser.assert_pixels` at interesting and strategic places.
This assertion method requires at least a CSS selector and an image title.

> Pixel tests are generated in five layouts by default; desktop, medium, mobile,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pixel tests are generated in five layouts by default: desktop, medium, mobile,
```

dark and rtl.

Take a screenshot of the content in `#detail-content`:
```python
browser.assert_pixels("#detail-content", "filesystem")
```

Take a screenshot the content in `#detail-content` and ignore all elements with

> a class `disk-stats` as they change per test run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a class `disk-stats` as they change per test run:
```

```python
browser.assert_pixels("#detail-content", "filesystem", ignore=[".disks-stats"])
```

Take a screenshot the content in `#detail-content` and skip it for a specific

> layout as it generates unstable pixels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
layout as it generates unstable pixels:
```

```python
browser.assert_pixels("#detail-content", "filesystem", skip_layouts=["rtl"])
```

To update pixel tests, locally run the test in the current tasks container, or
create a draft PR and let the tests run for `test/reference-image` and
afterwards fetch the new pixels:

```
./test/common/pixel-tests fetch "https://cockpit-logs.us-east-1.linodeobjects.com/<snip>/log.html"
```

> And then uploading the new pixel tests and committing the newly generated submodule commit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, upload the new pixel tests and commit the newly generated submodule commit:
```
